The sun was setting over the horizon, as Ignatius J. Reilly and the pterodactyl, named Big Al, faced one another in the middle of the Texas plains. The soft wind rustled the long grass around them as they both waited for the other to make the first move.

"Well, well, Ignatius," said Big Al, in a mocking voice. "It seems you've been gone for ages, but I never really thought you'd die. I always knew you were just a fake!"

Ignatius J. Reilly, sometimes known as I.J., took a step forward.

"You know nothing!" he said, his eyes flashing with anger. "I am immortal! I have come to conquer at last, and make my mark upon this cruel world!"

"Conquer? What foolishness is this? You are but a broken shell, with no friends and nothing to live for," sneered Big Al. "I will be the one to end your miserable life!"

The two warred with words as they circled one another, ever closer. The grass around them began to bend and sway in the wind.

Suddenly, there was a loud clap of thunder, and the sun was snuffed out, leaving the two fighting in darkness.

The pterodactyl advanced, and Ignatius J. Reilly, afraid, raised his fists.

The fight was joined!

The two pummeled one another, fists flying, as the ground shook with their anger. The wind whipped around them, swirling up dirt and grass.

The earth rumbled, as the two fought on, oblivious to everything around them but one another.

Suddenly, a bolt of lightning struck the ground, somewhere nearby.

The two stopped, panting, and turned to look at the place from which the bolt had come.

"You hit me!" shouted Ignatius J. Reilly, shocked.

"What? I did no such thing!"

"Yes, you did! I felt it!"

The two continued to glare at one another.

"Fine, if you think I hit you, then I did!" said Big Al, his voice dripping with sarcasm.

"You're the one who killed me! I was about to conquer this world, to make my mark, and you hit me!"

There was a long silence, as the two continued to glare at one another.

"You're wrong," said Big Al, finally. "It was you who killed yourself."

"What?"

"You heard me. You killed yourself. You destroyed yourself."

Chapter 1 - The Immortal Ignatius J. Reilly
It all started, as so many great things do, with a simple book.

I am the Immortal Ignatius J. Reilly, and I will tell you my tale.

It was a cold and stormy night in the year 1820. I was in the middle of a journey to find myself, and had just stepped off a westbound stagecoach in New Orleans. The coach had picked me up in St. Louis, and I was now making my way to the heart of the old French Louisiana.

I had a dream. A dream to make my mark in this world, and I was finally at the threshold of my dream.

I had just arrived in New Orleans. The place was alive with energy, and the world was my oyster. I was ready to begin my quest to find myself.

I took a deep breath of the rich and humid air. It was the smell of possibility, of adventure, of the unknown. I took another breath, and began to walk.

I was immediately beset by a mob of people, all clamoring to get a glimpse of the famous I.J. Reilly. I allowed myself to be led through the streets of New Orleans, until I came to a halt in the French Market.

The air was thick with the scents of saltwater, bayou mud, and roasting meat. I could feel the energy of the people around me, and it was electric. I could feel my heart beating faster, and I could feel the blood coursing through my veins.

My palms began to sweat, and I took a deep breath.

"Ah, New Orleans," I said, to no one in particular. "So this is what it feels like to be alive."

I turned to look at one of the men who was leading me through the market. He was grinning from ear to ear, and I could see the glint of gold in his teeth.

"Where are we going, exactly?" I asked him. "I'm not sure I'm familiar with this part of town."




