Ignatius J. Reilly was strolling along the banks of the Mississippi River, clutching his beloved Big Chief tablet and a hot dog wrapped in wax paper. He was humming a tune from his favorite medieval romance when he heard a loud screech from above. He looked up and saw a huge winged creature swooping down on him. It had a long beak, sharp claws and a reptilian tail. It was a pterodactyl, one of the ancient flying lizards that had somehow escaped extinction and found its way to New Orleans.

Ignatius gasped and dropped his tablet and hot dog. He ran for cover behind a trash can, but the pterodactyl was faster. It landed on the ground and grabbed Ignatius by his tweed trousers, lifting him into the air. Ignatius screamed and flailed his arms, trying to free himself from the beast's grip.

"Help! Help! Someone call the police!" he shouted. "This is an outrage! This is a violation of my civil rights! This is a conspiracy of the modern world against me!"

The pterodactyl ignored his protests and flew higher and higher, heading for its nest on top of a nearby skyscraper. Ignatius felt dizzy and nauseous as he looked down at the city below. He saw people pointing and laughing at him, cars honking their horns, and pigeons flying away in fear.

"This is humiliating!" he thought. "How dare this prehistoric monster attack me? I am a scholar, a philosopher, a man of letters! I must escape this ignominious fate!"

He reached into his coat pocket and pulled out his valve, a rubber device that he used to relieve his pyloric valve whenever it was under stress. He blew into it with all his might, hoping to distract the pterodactyl with the noise. The valve made a loud squeak that echoed in the air.

The pterodactyl was startled by the sound and loosened its grip on Ignatius' trousers. Ignatius seized the opportunity and kicked the creature in the eye with his green hunting boot. The pterodactyl shrieked in pain and dropped Ignatius, who fell like a stone towards the ground.

Ignatius closed his eyes and prayed to Fortuna, the goddess of fortune, to save him from certain death. He felt a sudden jolt as something caught him in mid-air. He opened his eyes and saw that he was in the arms of a man wearing a Superman costume.

"Have no fear, citizen!" the man said in a heroic voice. "Superman is here!"

Ignatius looked at him incredulously. He recognized him as one of the street performers who worked near Jackson Square. He had seen him before, posing for photos with tourists and collecting tips.

"Who are you?" Ignatius demanded. "What are you doing?"

"I'm Superman, of course!" the man said. "And I'm saving you from that nasty pterodactyl!"

He flew down to the ground and set Ignatius on his feet. Ignatius stumbled and fell on his knees. He felt a sharp pain in his trousers and realized that they were torn by the pterodactyl's claws.

"Look what you've done!" he yelled at the man. "You've ruined my trousers! They were imported from England!"

"Sorry about that," the man said sheepishly. "But at least you're alive."

He smiled and held out his hand for a tip.

Ignatius glared at him and slapped his hand away.

"Get away from me, you impostor!" he said. "You're not Superman! You're just a cheap imitation! You're part of the degenerate culture that plagues this city!"

He picked up his tablet and hot dog from the ground and stormed off, leaving the man bewildered.

Ignatius walked away, muttering to himself about the injustice of it all. He vowed to write a scathing letter to The Times-Picayune denouncing the pterodactyl attack and demanding compensation for his damaged trousers.

He also decided to sue Superman for false advertising and emotional distress.

He hoped that Fortuna would smile upon him again and grant him victory in court.